
Eugène Désiré Nzengou
 FR vesion
Physics Engineer | Project Leader | Web Developer & Data Analyst
 desiredsolutions.me
 des@desiredsolutions.me
 Telegram
 Twitter
 LinkedIn
 GitHub
 Discord
 Map
 Resume sections
 Education
 Jobs
 Skills
 Awards
 Testimonials
Personal statement
ME IN A NUTSHELL

A mixed culture through my Rwandan, Central African origins and a Belgian citizenship,

I am an engineer technologist and nuclear physicist living in Sweden and serving clients all around Europe with the main one based In Czech Republic. System thinker with a consistent critical approach, versatility is a clearly demonstrated skill of mine combined with a deep interest in – but not limited to – Data Analytics, Innovation, AI, Blockain, eXtended Reality - XR (AR / VR), Capacity Building, Diversity in Tech and Inclusion.
If you are looking for a versatile, cross-functional and cross-cultural professional, someone who can talk tech, budget and innovation with a can-do attitude; I am that one.

If instead, you’d rather settle for a risk-averse, predictable linear alternatvie, I would be glad to recommend someelse ☺


Countries I have lived and/or worked in include Italy, Belgium, Portugal (Açores), Greece, Sweden, France, Canada, USA, Central African Republic, Rwanda, Benin. Organizations I have worked with include some of the Fortune 500, such as Google and Caterpillar, as well as public organizations like the EUSPA - European Agency for the Space Programme - and Government of Rwanda . I also worked for innovative fast pace public organizations and government. My previous managers can vouch for my outstanding achievements

Eager learner of Complexity Theory and adaptive systems simulations, I enjoy diving into the core of things, solve problems with a mix of methodologies learned amaths and programming (mostly in Matlab, python or C++) to simulate complex adaptive systems – such as the climate, ecosystems, the society, startup organizations etc. in order to drive data-backed decision making.



If you work on the following 👇🏾 I can help!

Innovation, machine learning powered web apps, systems modeling, keynote public speaking, innovation enabling activiites (incubation/acceleration, capacity building workshop, fundraising and resources mobilization, pitch coaching, business and technology development, analytics, web3 and generative AI prototyping & more.

What drives me? Challenging projects, opportunities of learning, travels, nature. And fun things 🌈 ;-)

Eugène Désiré Nzengou

Education & Certification
Master Programme in Complex Adaptive Systems
CHALMERS – Gothenburg University

Some of the courses followed within the Complex Adaptive Systems programme:

Artificial Neural Network
Simulation of Complex Systems
Game Theory and Rationality
Dynamical Systems
Stochastic Optimization
Quantum Field Theory
etc.

More details here .
2019-2020

Master Degree in Industrial Sciences & Engineering Physics
Industrial Engineering Institute of Brussels - ISIB

Studying specific aspects of Engineering Physics and Nuclear, including nuclear, wind and solar-based energy production, nuclear safety and radiation protection, radiotherapy and radiology, radiation measurement, medical physics, chemistry physics, materials science, thermodynamics and flow dynamics, etc.
along with courses that deal with the optimization of complex processes or systems.
More details (fr) here.

2009-2011

Bachelor Degree in Engineering Technology
Industrial Engineering Institute of Brussels - ISIB

Receiving a cross-training over common general engineering courses such as mathematics , physics and chemistry , mechanics, graphic techniques, IT - C++, Java, SQL programming, electrical, fluid mechanics , thermodynamics, an introduction to project management, etc. on top of specific nuclear and physics topics.
More details (fr) here.

2005-2009

The Datascientist's Toolbox Certification
Bloomberg School of Public Health, John Hopkins University - coursera.org

Introduction to two main components: the ideas behind turning data into actionable knowledge, and a practical approach to the tools commonly met such as version control, markdown, git, GitHub, R, and RStudio.

2014

Lean Six-Sigma Green Belt Certification
Mouvement Québecois de la Qualité - MQQ

Training for professionals to be well versed in the Lean Six Sigma Methodology who both leads or supports improvement projects. Provides a thorough understanding of all aspects within the phases of D-M-A-I-C.

2013

Additional classes. For more details, see here

Essentiels of Systems and Networks - L'Essentiel des Systèmes et Réseaux
IRiSib

Complementary Degree in Management (ongoing)
ICHEC Brussels Management School

Job Experiences
Desired Solutions
Tech consultant & web developer

A bespoke technology innovation & strategy company delivering consultancy services, including;
Coaching to space and deep tech startups
Business and technology development startups
Curriculum Development, design and delivery
Tokenomics / crypto token economics with incentives-based mechanisms
Data analytics, processing and visualization
ML model implementation, deployment to the web
Through my work I meet interesting, talented individuals, give and facilitate keynote speaking, pitch and facilitate founders pitch sessions to customer or corporate, investors or public authorities.
I build digital solutions on Space Technology, AI and in particular the new generation of GPT-powered solutions (chatGPT, DALL-E and the likes), web3 blockchain Generative AI, Quantum Computing, XR.

01.2020 -

​Market and Space Downstream Innovation consultant
EUSPA – European Agency for the Space Programme

Market Innovation and Entrepreneurship Specialist Using Space 🚀 on Earth.

Coach and mentors on technologies and business development to space tech and deep tech startups accelerated under the EUSPA initiatives within CASSINI.eu programmes (CASSINI challenges, MyGalileoSolution, myEUspace, Space Academy, Space 🚀 & geospatial metaverse initiative, startups-investors-customers matchmaking & more).
Ensuring compliance to technology regulation (MiCA, AI Act etc), environmental and sustainability good practices.
11.2019 -

​Senior Industrial Technology Expert (Tech Advisor)
NIRDA – National Industrial Research and Development Agency

As Senior Industrial Technology Advisor for the Government of Rwanda’s National Industrial Research and Development Agency (NIRDA), we are building up Rwanda’s first STEM-based laboratory for product development and business incubation.

A particular emphasis is put on solutions for energy storage, mobility, agro-processing, health tech, eductech.

Areas covered: Smart hardware products development; startups mentoring; Governance, UX/UI Design.
Skills developed and technology applied: IoT basics; Machine Learning modeling on sensors data; Science Research and Technology Innovation policies; Human-Centered Design approach; Resources mobilization
05.2018 -

Africa Blockchain Institute
Board Member

Building Blockchain Capacities in Africa for Digital Transformation.
Educating, raising awareness, training communities on distributed ledger technology, governance and applications.
We bring to Africa, through a headquarter in Rwanda, a platform for open discussion and peer to peer sharing on everything-blockchain and cryptocurrencies, for education purpose, assistance in regulation and policy writing, raise awareness of human-centerd use of the emerging technology.

11.2019 -

​Web & Business Development for bootstrapping early-stage startups
Portfolio

Areas covered:
Lean and Design Thinking; Business plans; Team management, UX/UI Design; webapp prototyping.
Skills developed and technology applied: web & mobile development (HTML, JavaScript, CSS/SASS, Ionic framework, Python); Data analysis & Machine Learning (R, Matlab / octave); Programming (node.js, MySQL); Cloud computing: Cloud Cognitive Services (Microsoft Azure, GCD, IBM Watson), Simulation & Modeling
03.2016 -

Program Manager - EMEA | Training Material Specialist
Google (by Unique interim)

Leading the development and deployment of a ‘world­class’ training program on Operational Qualification Standards (OQS) for the Data Center Operations teams in the EMEA region.
Areas covered: Web and mobile application platform; Business plans; Team management, UX/UI Design; web and mobile apps prototyping
Skills developed and technology applied: web & mobile development (HTML, JavaScript, CSS/SASS, Ionic framework, Angular JS); Data analysis & Machine Learning (R, Matlab / octave); Programming (Java, node.js, SQL); Cloud computing: Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services
02.2015 - 11.2015

Data Analyst / Project Management support
International SOS - ISOS.

Performing data analysis on company's clients reports for storytelling and trends drawing. Continuously improve the standardization processes involved in building, maintaining and presenting reports. Autonomous and comprehensive Project management support. In particularl in the data migration from Medical Consulting division's shared drives to MS SharePoint, ISOS Medical Sites Utilization analysis, Pandemic plan delivery process and reporting (for Ebola, Influenza, Measles), client's Global Account Plan (GAP) from salesforce.com reporting

03.2014-02.2015

Research Engineer trainee
Laboratório Regional de Engenharia Civil - LREC

Non-destructive Testing and Evaluation (NDT&E) technique in civil engineering to analyze the impact of humidity and termites on Sao Miguel (Azores) edifices integrity. Use of FLIR E40bx Camera and Imaging System - Infrared radiation (IR) thermography for that purpose

2014

Additional experiences. More details, see here

Business and Technical development (volunteering)
JustRunIt

Business and financial planning. Design of a website (beta) and prototyping. Web and mobile application development undergoing.

Laboratory Technician - Water Quality
INOVA

Implement on food and water samples analytical methods (Extraction Liquid - Liquid & Gravimetry) for quality control based on the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Method 1664. Assist in internal quality audits. Implement the Quality Management System ISO/IEC 17025.

Senior Learning Consultant / EMEA CPS Master Trainer
Caterpillar

Work on the deployment of CPS Technical training programs (for assembler, machine-operator, welder) in EAME machining training, standardization of processes, aim being to avoid rework and redundant quality checks by improving the Quality of products and Safety of employees.

Money transfert Expert
The Bank of New York Mellon - BNYM

Back office operations via SWIFT for our clients (subsidiairies and partner banks). Handling liquidity books. Reconciliation of forecasts on cash and flow trades. Liaise with traders with speedy calculated figures for markets trades.

VP Exchange - ICX & OGX (volunteering)
AIESEC

managing the overall selection process of trainees (Incoming and Outgoing Exchange) in collaboration with my team (+- 10 people). Building partnerships partners (companies, NGOs, other committees). Work in partnership with local committee departments (Project, External (Corporate) Relation and Finance).

Technical skills
Python

80% Complete
R

75% Complete
Angular JS

30% Complete
Node JS

55% Complete
Adobe Illustrator

80% Complete
Articulate Storyline 2

80% Complete
HTML

70% Complete
JavaScript

40% Complete
DMAIC

85% Complete
Microsft Azure

70% Complete
Amazon Web Service

50% Complete
Language skills
English

85% Complete (success)
French

100% Complete (success)
Dutch

55% Complete (success)
Portuguese

70% Complete
Awards
Euroweek Conference Business & Environment certificate
PrimeNetwork

Natural radioactivity due to radon in Belgium and Finland.

Start-up project Award of Collaborative Economy
Molengeek co-working

Business model canvas designed around the collaborative economy.

Most Tech Award
Microsoft Innovation Center

Melvin the Emergency Bot.

Testimonials
I worked very closely with Eugène. He was an incredible resource for my team at Google and I truly believe he would be a significant asset to any organization.


Shmuel D.
Google

Eugene is energetic, driven, and wants to accomplish as much as possible each day. He is friendly, engaging, cooperative, and congenial.


Tanya F.
International SOS

I have known Desire since the time we met at local Artificial Intelligence (AI) meetup. At the time, he was driving a lot of tech initiatives, inspiring and advising young innovators, and attracting people to join meetups in field of AI, Augmented and Virtual Reality (AR VR), Internet of Things (IoT) and Blockchain. I recommend him for (and not limited to) startups advising, implementing technical projects and pushing the state of tech in community.


Jean de Dieu N.
DeepLearning.AI Ambassador programme

Personal Assets

Designed by © desire.yavro